AWS

Module 01 - Introduction to Cloud Computing & AWS
	Hands-on Exercise – Setting up of AWS account, how to launch an EC2 instance, the process of hosting a website and launching a Linux Virtual Machine using an AWS EC2 instance.
	
Module 02 - Elastic Compute and Storage Volumes
	Hands-on Exercise –
1. Launching an EC2 instance
2. Creating an AMI of the launched instance
3. Copying the AMI to another region
4. Creating an EBS volume
5. Attaching the EBS volume with an instance
6. Taking backup of an EBS volume
7. Creating an EFS volume and mounting the EFS volume to two instances.

Module 03 - Load Balancing, Autoscaling and DNS
Hands-on Exercise –
1. Creating a Classic ELB
2. Creating an Application ELB
3. Creating an auto-scaling group
4. Configuring an auto-scaling group
5. Integrating ELB with Auto Scaling
6. Redirect traffic from domain name to ELB using Route 53.

Module 04 - Virtual Private Cloud
Hands-on Exercise –
1. Creating a VPC and subnets,
2. Creating a 3 Tier architecture with security groups,
3. NACL, Internet gateway and NAT gateway,
4. Creating a complete VPC architecture.


Module 05 - Storage - Simple Storage Service (S3)
Hands-on Exercise –
1. Creating an S3 bucket
2. Uploading objects to the S3 bucket
3. Enabling object versioning in the S3 bucket
4. Setting up lifecycle management for only a few objects
5. Setting up lifecycle management for all objects with the same tag
6. Static website hosting using S3.


Module 06 - Databases and In-Memory DataStores
Hands-on Exercise –
1. Launching a MySQL RDS instance
2. Modifying an RDS instance
3. Connecting to the DB instance from your machine
4. Creating a multi-az deployment
5. Create an Aurora DB cluster
6. Creating an Aurora replica
7. Creating a DynamoDB table.

Module 07 - Management and Application Services
Hands-on Exercise –
1. Creating a CloudFormation stack
2. Launching a t2.micro
3. EC2 instance using CloudFormation
4. Using CloudFormation to automate an architectural deployment
5. Creating an SNS topic, creating a subscription within the topic
6. Setting up SES and sending a mail
7. Creating an SQS queue and sending a sample message.

Module 08 - Access Management and Monitoring Services
Hands-on Exercise –
1. Creating IAM users and a group
2. creating an IAM policy and attach it to the group
3. creating an IAM role
4. Setup MFA for a user
5. Creating a CloudWatch dashboard and add metrics
6. Create a CloudWatch alarm which triggers according to CPU Utilization of an EC2 instance
7. Creating a billing alarm
8. Creating a log group
9. Creating a trail.

Module 09 - Automation and Configuration management
Hands-on Exercise –
1. Creating a Lambda function
2. Setting up Lambda triggers and destinations
3. Creating an Elastic Beanstalk application
4. Uploading a new version of the application to Beanstalk
5. Creating a stack in OpsWorks
6. Launching the instance using OpsWorks and automatically installing the application.

Module 10 - AWS Migration


Module 13 - Amazon FSx and Global Accelerator
Hands-on Exercise:
1. Creating a shared FSx file system between two windows instances
2. Accessing one instance with multiple Elastic IPS using ENI
3. Using Global Accelerator to map instances from 2 regions into one domain name
4. Enabling Enhanced Networking on an Ubuntu instance


Module 14 - AWS Architect Interview Questions

Deploying a Multi-Tier Website on AWS
Deploying a Website for High Availability and High Resilience
Sending Notifications to patients using push notifications
Application to sort objects in an S3 bucket using Beanstalk and Lambda
Case Study 1 - Using Different Operations on EC2 and EWS
Case Study 2 - Autoscaling Compute Capacity in AWS
Case Study 3 - Creating custom VPCs in AWS
Case Study 4 - Using AWS S3 for Lifecycle Access Management
Case Study 5 - Highly available Relational Database in AWS
Case Study 6 - CloudFormation for Infrastructure-as-Code
Case Study 7 - Administering user access using AWS IAM
Case Study 8 - Application Services in AWS and Configuration Management
























